README.md, before:

# Power Outage Data Scraping Code

#### This repository contains the code to craw power outage data.

### The structure is as below:

#### 1. Data Analysis Directory

##### This directory contains raw csv data about Internet outages from `KeepItOn` and the analysis of the data. We order the occurrences with the most occurrences to the least, and we prioritize the countries experienced more Internet outages, like India and Ukraine.

#### 2. {country name} Directory

##### The directories named with the country is the scraping code for the power information websites from this country. Every country is divided into different regions.

#### 3. {power provider} Directory

##### Each directory named with the power provider contains one Python file to scrape outage data from website and save the raw data, another Python file to process the saved raw data and save the processed data in desired format. The file name of a processor file contains "process" or "processor".

### How to run Python file (for India, Nigeria, Pakistan)

#### 1. Scraper file

##### Scraper files for each provider can be directly executed. For Scrapers in India, Nigeria, and Pakistan directories, processor will be called when running the scraper files.

#### 2. Processor file (India, Nigeria, Pakistan)

##### Referring to the processor file - process_npp.py in directory india/npp as example, first to provide a relative path to a `file` for processing. Then, modify the variable, `self.folder_path`, in function `check_folder`. This folder path is where you would like to save the processed file. Finally, run the python file.

#### 3. daily_scraping.py

##### This file can be run to scrape outage data from all power providers (in the folders of india, pakistan, nigeria) at once. This file will be run daily to scrape the outage data. It is recommended to run near noon time in EST to avoid intermittent internet issue.

#### 4. monthly_scraping.py

##### This file can be run to scrape outage data from two power providers in India which are providing monthly outage data at once. This file will be run monthly.

#### 5. process_file.py

##### This file can be run to process the saved raw file containing outage data. When running the file, input country name, provider name, report name if provider is NPP, year, month (in number), and day. If the raw file exists, a processed file will be generated and saved in processed folder.

### How to run Python file (for Ukraine)

##### The year, month, date and the root directory to save crawled data is in the constants.py in the ukraine directory. You can change the constants in this file.

#### 1. Scraper file

##### Scraper files for each oblast(which is province in Ukraine) can be directly executed.

#### 2. Post processor file

##### post_processor.py in every oblast directory. When raw file is crawled, the post_processed could be executed to generate clean data

##### crawl_ukraine_daily.sh is to run daily crawlers daily and craw_ukraine_monthly is to run monthly crawlers.

Commit message:

update read me about running process_file.py

README.md, after:

# Power Outage Data Scraping Code

#### This repository contains the code to craw power outage data.

### The structure is as below:

#### 1. Data Analysis Directory

##### This directory contains raw csv data about Internet outages from `KeepItOn` and the analysis of the data. We order the occurrences with the most occurrences to the least, and we prioritize the countries experienced more Internet outages, like India and Ukraine.

#### 2. {country name} Directory

##### The directories named with the country is the scraping code for the power information websites from this country. Every country is divided into different regions.

#### 3. {power provider} Directory

##### Each directory named with the power provider contains one Python file to scrape outage data from website and save the raw data, another Python file to process the saved raw data and save the processed data in desired format. The file name of a processor file contains "process" or "processor".

### How to run Python file (for India, Nigeria, Pakistan)

#### 1. Scraper file

##### Scraper files for each provider can be directly executed. For Scrapers in India, Nigeria, and Pakistan directories, processor will be called when running the scraper files.

#### 2. Processor file (India, Nigeria, Pakistan)

##### Referring to the processor file - process_npp.py in directory india/npp as example, first to provide a relative path to a `file` for processing. Then, modify the variable, `self.folder_path`, in function `check_folder`. This folder path is where you would like to save the processed file. Finally, run the python file.

#### 3. daily_scraping.py

##### This file can be run to scrape outage data from all power providers (in the folders of india, pakistan, nigeria) at once. This file will be run daily to scrape the outage data. It is recommended to run near noon time in EST to avoid intermittent internet issue.

#### 4. monthly_scraping.py

##### This file can be run to scrape outage data from two power providers in India which are providing monthly outage data at once. This file will be run monthly.

#### 5. process_file.py

##### This file can be run to process the saved raw files containing outage data in a given date range.
##### Example script to run:
        python process_file.py \
            --country india \
            --provider npp \
            --start_date 2025-04-18 \
            --end_date 2025-04-22

### How to run Python file (for Ukraine)

##### The year, month, date and the root directory to save crawled data is in the constants.py in the ukraine directory. You can change the constants in this file.

#### 1. Scraper file

##### Scraper files for each oblast(which is province in Ukraine) can be directly executed.

#### 2. Post processor file

##### post_processor.py in every oblast directory. When raw file is crawled, the post_processed could be executed to generate clean data

##### crawl_ukraine_daily.sh is to run daily crawlers daily and craw_ukraine_monthly is to run monthly crawlers.
